README.md, before:

# AWS Glue Tagger

All CloudFormation stack-level tags, including automatically created tags, are propagated to resources that CloudFormation supports. AWS Glue resources do not support this feature at the moment. By using AWS Glue Tagger, you benefit from proper tagging on all of your AWS Glue resources which allows you to have better tracking of costs & resource allocation in your AWS accounts. AWS Glue Tagger automatically propagates tags from your CloudFormation stacks to the AWS Glue resources that you specify. Alternatively, you can override the stack tags by providing specific tags that you want to use to tag your AWS Glue resources.

## **Usage**

Add AWS Glue Tagger SAR application to your CloudFormation stack or CDK application. E.g.:

```yaml
# Add SAR application to your stack. 
AWSGlueTagger:
  Type: AWS::Serverless::Application
  Properties:
    Location:
      SemanticVersion: 1.0.0
      ApplicationId: arn:aws:serverlessrepo:us-east-1:621462903008:applications/aws-glue-tagger
```

During the deployment, the SAR application creates a nested stack that provisions the following resources and outputs:

![AWS Glue Tagger Resources](assets/aws-glue-tagger-resources.png)
![AWS Glue Tagger Outputs](assets/aws-glue-tagger-outputs.png)

These are:

  * Resource - AWS Lambda Function - GlueTaggerFunction
  * Resource - AWS IAM Role - GlueTaggerFunctionRole
  * Output - Stack Export Name - GlueTaggerFunction (maps to GlueTaggerFunction Arn)

## **Tagging AWS Glue Resources**

Once the SAR application is deployed in the AWS account, you can add Custom Resources (CRs) to your CloudFormation stacks or CDK applications to leverage the tagging functionality from the SAR application to tag your resources. You can provide 3 properties to the CR. These are:

  * **ServiceToken (required)**: The service token which references the GlueTaggerFunction Arn.
  * **ResourceArn (required)**: The list of AWS Glue resource Arns to be tagged.
  * **Tags (optional)**: When provided, stack tags will be omitted and the specified Tags in this property will be applied to the resources defined in ResourceArn.

By default, the CR propagates the parent stack tags to the resources provided in the `ResourceArn` property. When the `Tags` property is specified, the parent stack tags are overriden and the specified `Tags` are used instead. The following example propagates the parent stack tags to the AWS Glue Job `MyJob1`:

```yaml
# Create Custom Resource (CR) to tag Glue resources (propagate parent stack tags)
GlueTaggerTestStack:
  Type: 'Custom::GlueTaggerTestStack'
  DependsOn:
    - 'MyJob1'
    - 'AWSGlueTagger'
  Properties:
    ServiceToken: !ImportValue GlueTaggerFunction
    ResourceArn:
      - !Sub 'arn:aws:glue:${AWS::Region}:${AWS::AccountId}:job/${MyJob1}'
```

The following example overrides the parent stack tags and propagates the specified tags to the resources:

```yaml
# Create Custom Resource (CR) to tag Glue resources (propagate specified tags in Custom Resource)
GlueTaggerTestStack:
  Type: 'Custom::GlueTaggerTestStack'
  DependsOn:
    - 'MyJob1'
    - 'AWSGlueTagger'
  Properties:
    ServiceToken: !ImportValue GlueTaggerFunction
    ResourceArn:
      - !Sub 'arn:aws:glue:${AWS::Region}:${AWS::AccountId}:job/${MyJob1}'
    Tags:
      - 'cost_id=0000'
      - 'owner=myorg'
```
You can find a complete example under [examples/test_stack.yaml](examples/test_stack.yaml). If you want to deploy the test stack to your AWS accout, you can issue the following commands in your CLI. 

**NOTE:** Please make sure to: 
  * have the correct access keys and permissions set in your CLI session for the AWS account where you want to deploy the test stack
  * have an S3 bucket which can be used by CloudFormation to store assets during the `aws cloudformation package` process

```bash
cd examples

# Package test stack template
aws cloudformation package \
  --template-file test_stack.yaml \
  --output-template-file packaged_test_stack.yaml \
  --s3-bucket <BUCKET_NAME>

# Deploy test stack
aws cloudformation deploy \
  --template-file packaged_test_stack.yaml \
  --stack-name test-glue-tagger-stack \
  --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM CAPABILITY_AUTO_EXPAND \
  --tags cost_id=0000
```

## Development

If you would like to deploy the AWS Glue Tagger resources to your AWS account directly from the project repo (not via SAR), you can run the `deploy.sh` script in the project root. 

**NOTE:** Please make sure to: 
  * have the correct access keys and permissions set in your CLI session for the AWS account where you want to deploy the test stack
  * have an S3 bucket which can be used by CloudFormation to store assets during the `aws cloudformation package` process within `deploy.sh`
  * Change S3 bucket name in `deploy.sh` i.e. `export S3_BUCKET_ASSETS=<CHANGE_ME>`

To contribute to this project please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License

This library is licensed under the MIT-0 License. See the LICENSE file.

Commit message:

Improves readme, test stack, and gitignore

README.md, after:

# AWS Glue Tagger

All CloudFormation stack-level tags, including automatically created tags, are propagated to resources that CloudFormation supports. AWS Glue resources do not support this feature at the moment. By using AWS Glue Tagger, you benefit from proper tagging on all of your AWS Glue resources which allows you to have better tracking of costs & resource allocation in your AWS accounts. AWS Glue Tagger automatically propagates tags from your CloudFormation stacks to the AWS Glue resources that you specify. Alternatively, you can override the stack tags by providing specific tags that you want to use to tag your AWS Glue resources.

## **Usage**

Add AWS Glue Tagger SAR application to your CloudFormation stack or CDK application. E.g.:

```yaml
# Add SAR application to your stack. 
AWSGlueTagger:
  Type: AWS::Serverless::Application
  Properties:
    Location:
      SemanticVersion: 1.0.0
      ApplicationId: arn:aws:serverlessrepo:us-east-1:621462903008:applications/aws-glue-tagger
```

During the deployment, the SAR application creates a nested stack that provisions the following resources and outputs:

![AWS Glue Tagger Resources](assets/aws-glue-tagger-resources.png)
![AWS Glue Tagger Outputs](assets/aws-glue-tagger-outputs.png)

These are:

  * Resource - AWS Lambda Function - GlueTaggerFunction
  * Resource - AWS IAM Role - GlueTaggerFunctionRole
  * Output - Stack Export Name - GlueTaggerFunction (maps to GlueTaggerFunction Arn)

## **Tagging AWS Glue Resources**

Once the SAR application is deployed in the AWS account, you can add Custom Resources (CRs) to your CloudFormation stacks or CDK applications to leverage the tagging functionality from the SAR application to tag your resources. You can provide 3 properties to the CR. These are:

  * **ServiceToken (required)**: The service token which references the GlueTaggerFunction Arn.
  * **ResourceArn (required)**: The list of AWS Glue resource Arns to be tagged.
  * **Tags (optional)**: When provided, stack tags will be omitted and the specified Tags in this property will be applied to the resources defined in ResourceArn.

By default, the CR propagates the parent stack tags to the resources provided in the `ResourceArn` property. When the `Tags` property is specified, the parent stack tags are overriden and the specified `Tags` are used instead. The following example propagates the parent stack tags to the AWS Glue Job `MyJob1`:

```yaml
# Create Custom Resource (CR) to tag Glue resources (propagate parent stack tags)
# NOTE: Use !ImportValue GlueTaggerFunction as ServiceToken for the CR if the CR is in a different stack than the SAR application
# NOTE: Use !GetAtt AWSGlueTagger.Outputs.GlueTagger as ServiceToken for the CR if the CR is within the same stack as the SAR application
GlueTaggerTestStack:
  Type: 'Custom::GlueTaggerTestStack'
  DependsOn:
    - 'MyJob1'
    - 'AWSGlueTagger'
  Properties:
    ServiceToken: !ImportValue GlueTaggerFunction
    ResourceArn:
      - !Sub 'arn:aws:glue:${AWS::Region}:${AWS::AccountId}:job/${MyJob1}'
```

The following example overrides the parent stack tags and propagates the specified tags to the resources:

```yaml
# Create Custom Resource (CR) to tag Glue resources (propagate specified tags in Custom Resource)
# NOTE: Use !ImportValue GlueTaggerFunction as ServiceToken for the CR if the CR is in a different stack than the SAR application
# NOTE: Use !GetAtt AWSGlueTaggerLogicalID.Outputs.GlueTagger as ServiceToken for the CR if the CR is within the same stack as the SAR application
GlueTaggerTestStack:
  Type: 'Custom::GlueTaggerTestStack'
  DependsOn:
    - 'MyJob1'
    - 'AWSGlueTagger'
  Properties:
    ServiceToken: !ImportValue GlueTaggerFunction
    ResourceArn:
      - !Sub 'arn:aws:glue:${AWS::Region}:${AWS::AccountId}:job/${MyJob1}'
    Tags:
      - 'cost_id=0000'
      - 'owner=myorg'
```
You can find a complete example under [examples/test_stack.yaml](examples/test_stack.yaml). If you want to deploy the test stack to your AWS accout, you can issue the following commands in your CLI. 

**NOTE:** Please make sure to: 
  * have the correct access keys and permissions set in your CLI session for the AWS account where you want to deploy the test stack
  * have an S3 bucket which can be used by CloudFormation to store assets during the `aws cloudformation package` process

```bash
cd examples

# Package test stack template
aws cloudformation package \
  --template-file test_stack.yaml \
  --output-template-file packaged_test_stack.yaml \
  --s3-bucket <BUCKET_NAME>

# Deploy test stack
aws cloudformation deploy \
  --template-file packaged_test_stack.yaml \
  --stack-name test-glue-tagger-stack \
  --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM CAPABILITY_AUTO_EXPAND \
  --tags cost_id=0000
```

## Development

If you would like to deploy the AWS Glue Tagger resources to your AWS account directly from the project repo (not via SAR), you can run the `deploy.sh` script in the project root. 

**NOTE:** Please make sure to: 
  * have the correct access keys and permissions set in your CLI session for the AWS account where you want to deploy the test stack
  * have an S3 bucket which can be used by CloudFormation to store assets during the `aws cloudformation package` process within `deploy.sh`
  * Change S3 bucket name in `deploy.sh` i.e. `export S3_BUCKET_ASSETS=<CHANGE_ME>`

To contribute to this project please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## Security

See [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md#security-issue-notifications) for more information.

## License

This library is licensed under the MIT-0 License. See the LICENSE file.
